Business Objective:
The main objective in today’s financial landscape is very simple – to get maximize returns at lesser risk. At first, this is would sound straightforward, however it is this balance which people are still thriving to achieve. Also construction and portfolio selection is an investment strategy that allows investors to optimize the overall rate of return investment for the risk. Hence a solution which works to resolve these challenges is of utmost importance and greatly valued in the financial management. This forms our core outline for picking this topic.

Results and Findings:
As part of the project we tried to solve the business problem highlighted above with the application of modern analytical tools and computational processes.
For step 1 we retrieved the data of multiple securities for various companies like Apple, Google and Netflix etc. by application of web scrapers. The data for the previous 10 years was picked up from Yahoo Finance and then processed by our application. The idea behind building up an analytical solution was to randomize the generation of portfolio’s comprising of securities from various companies to best fit constraints specified by an investor.
Once we were able to build multiple sets of random portfolios using simulation – the goal was to get the optimized portfolio with a balance between high returns and low risk. This was done using optimization techniques to return portfolio’s with high sharp ratio’s or low volatility. Random weights were assigned at each simulation of portfolio generation and the model was a built factoring into account all possible combinations. Once this was achieved, the application would then go on and predict stock price from the optimal solution over a period of time to give the investor a complete picture of the return on investment done.
